Items revised in the 2nd version

1. Modify the first couple of sentences in the first paragraph.

2. Interpret the real application using disease-free or endemic equilibrium.

[done] 3. Modify the second last sentence in the first paragraph.

[done] 4. Make “EpiEstim(2.2)” all in \texttt{}.

[done] 5. In the same sentence as in 4., revise “directly estimated”. The original version also considered the uncertainty of serial interval. What’s the improvement here? 

[done] 6. Modify the following sentences.

[done] 7. Add the first version of EpiNow. (EpiNow is deprecated in favor of EpiNow2.)

8. Discuss sufficiently the advantages and limitations of all existing methods. And point out the “real” competitors that we compare with? 

9. Specifically, EpiFilter and/or EpiNow2 dislike large incidence counts, since they discretize the range of incidence to contiguous intervals for computation.

[done] 10. At the beginning of the 3rd paragraph, add a summry sentence.

[done] 11. Modify the second sentence of the 4th paragraph.

[done] 12. At the end of the last sentence of Section 1, add “in the end”.

[done] 13. Change “correspond to” to “is related to” on top of page4.

[done] 14. Carefully clarify/define the terms throughout the manuscript, e.g., good quality of data. What are the good qualities of data?

[done] 15. In sec2.2, avoid distribution equality; instead write it as term equality.

16. A big difference of our method compared to ETF is that original ETF treats signals independently, but in our method later signals cumulate the randomness from previous signals. 

[done] 17. Add more details when explaining the null space of divided difference matrix.

[done] 18. Starting from Equation (3), use w to replace \Lambda

19. More details on the Bayesian interpretation of our approach. (Check out extended Kalman filter).

-20. Add Gamma densities with 3 sets of parameters in simulation study? Maybe not...

21. In the Results section, add subsections of cross validation and confidence bands respectively.

22. Write all model short names in \textt{} or not? 

[done] 23. Add discussion on time comparisons.

[done] 24. Why KL, not l2 norm? Explain it.

25. Any changes need to be made for experiments? Run it using cluster. 

26. Replace the experimental results run locally by the ones from cluster. Add cluster information in Sec3.1. 

-27. Include the choices of hyperparameters of EpiEstim and EpiLPS. 

[done] 28. More explanation on why weekly window for EpiEstim? Use the EpiEstim provided by EpiLPS? How does EpiLPS software solve the EpiEstim model --- the sliding window and the estimates of the first sliding window? Or we should use monthly window. 

29. Modify the explanation on EpiLPS. 

[done ] 30. Modifications on the figures? (make the true Rt to be gray) Add EpiEstim and EpiLPS estimates with credible intervals? (CIs in supp)

31. Add a diagram for the methodology? 

-32. Modify Scenarios 2&3 to be continuous? Or do we assume the Rt to be smooth? If not, all three models are fundamentally unable to solve the problem as they are compute continuous estimates. (no)

[done] 33. Give four scenarios reasonable names? Explain them in Results. 
* Explain/Motivate the four scenarios. 

34. Fill the empty space below Figure 3?

[TBD!!!] 35. The KL divergence for NB incidence cases should be KL for NB distribution, instead of Poisson distribution. Double check the formula of KL for NB? (Add to Discussion) 

[done] 36. [Something aside about rtestim]. Can we take dates of specific forms as data location argument input? yes, we can.

37. More comments on the confidence bands in real applications. 

38. More introduction to the 1918 influenza. More generally, add more contents to the real applications (say some conclusions from existing studies, etc.) or the Results section.

Discussion section ----

39. Make the first few sentences at the beginning of the section to be more epidemiologically related. Use the language of epidimiology research. Key words to highlight: temporal evolution, accuracy, computationally efficient especially for large scale data, etc.

40. In Discussion section, discuss generally Rt properties that we're looking for. Efforts people have paid to achieve other properties that we've not had a chance to touch on. 

41. Touch a bit on forecasting in the 2nd paragraph in Discussion. 

42. Remove the paragraph of compartmental models. They only estimate basic reproduction numbers.

43. Limitations of existing methods!!!

44. Add details of implementation (see the Outline) to Result section


------

---- Qs on modifying the first draft ----
My questions are mostly on the experimental settings.
1. Scenarios 2 and 3 are discontinuous curves. However, all three models assume the estimators to be continuous, which causes a fundamental defect for all models. Should we make the Rt curves to be continous? (keep it as current)
2. EpiEstim looks too wiggly compared to the other two models. I'm thinking to use a longer sliding window to see if it returns smoother&better curves. (monthly works better than weekly)
3. How about name the four scenarios as 2-segment constant case, 2-segment exponential case, 4-segment linear case, periodic case. 
4. I found it's not reasonable to use KL between Poisson distributions for the negative Binomial incidences. I derive the KL for NB distribution, and will fix the issue later when I rerun the experiments on cluster. (I didn't find a reference on the KL formula for NB, so I derive it manually. See attached.) (Add it to discussion)
5. I currently have the experiments run locally. (I just renewed the computecanada account.) I'll rerun the experiments on cluster after the above issues are fixed, and add the cluster information to the manuscript. 
6. I currently don't have the credible intervals computed for the simulation study. I'll make a larger graph to include it. Do you think it's necessary to have it in the manuscript, or just keep it in the supplementary doc? 
7. Please also let me know if you observe something else in the experiments that need to be fixed. 
8. It'd be good to have a diagram visualizing the methodology. I don't have a concrete idea upon it, but I'll work on it soon. Any thoughts? 
---- end of the Qs ----

